apps/system/time/sys_time_multiclient/readme.md, before:

---
parent: Harmony 3 driver and system service application examples for PIC32MX family
title: Time System Service multi-client 
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# Time System Service multi-client

This example application demonstrates the multi-client system timer functionality

## Description

- This application demonstrates timer functionality (with two clients to the Time System Service) by periodically printing a message on console every two seconds and blinking an LED every one second

- Delay, counter and single shot timer functionality is demonstrated on a switch press

- On a switch press, the application reads the current value of the 64 bit counter (say, count 1)
- It then starts a delay of 500 milliseconds and waits for the delay to expire
- Once the delay has expired, the application again reads the current value of the 64 bit counter (say, count 2) and calculates the difference between the two counter values

- The difference count indicates the time spent for the delay and is printed on the console as, "Delay time = x ms", where x is the delay value and is equal to 500 milliseconds in the given example

- The application then starts a single shot timer of 100 milliseconds
- When the single shot timer expires, a message is printed on the console that says "Single shot timer of 100 ms expired"
- This message is printed only once on every switch press

## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_pic32mx) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/system/time/sys_time_multiclient/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| pic32mx470_curiosity.X | MPLABX project for [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103) |
| pic32mx_eth_sk2.X | MPLABX project for [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320004) |
|||

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| pic32mx470_curiosity.X | [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103) |
| pic32mx_eth_sk2.X | [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320004) |
|||

### Setting up [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103)

- Connect mini USB cable to the 'Debug USB' connector(J3) on the board to the computer
- Install the [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) board on to the mikroBUS socket J5 of [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103)
- Connect mini USB cable to the [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) board. This will enumerate the USB to UART port
- **Note:** Ensure that the series resistors on the mikroBUS headers are of value 0 Ohms

### Setting up [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320004)

- Mount [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320004-2) on the J1 connector of [Starter Kit I/O Expansion Board](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320002)
- Connect **TX pin** of [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) to **U2RX pin of J11** header on [Starter Kit I/O Expansion Board](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320002)
- Connect **RX pin** of [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) to **U2TX pin of J11** header on [Starter Kit I/O Expansion Board](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320002)
- Connect **GND pin** of [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) to **GND pin of J11** header on [Starter Kit I/O Expansion Board](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320002)
- Connect mini USB cable to the [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) board. This will enumerate the USB to UART port.
- Connect the Debug USB port on the board to the computer using a micro USB cable
- Connect mini USB cable to the 'Debug USB' connector(J7) on the [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320004-2) to the computer

## Running the Application

1. Open the Terminal application (Ex.:Tera term) on the computer
2. Connect to the EDBG Virtual COM port and configure the serial settings as follows:
    - Baud : 115200
    - Data : 8 Bits
    - Parity : None
    - Stop : 1 Bit
    - Flow Control : None
3. Build and Program the application using its IDE
4. Observe the following message getting printed on the console every two seconds

    ![output_sys_time_multiclient_1](images/output_sys_time_multiclient_1.png)

5. Press the switch and observe the following output on the terminal (highlighted in red box)

    ![output_sys_time_multiclient_2](images/output_sys_time_multiclient_2.png)

    - "Delay time = 500 ms" indicates the amount of time spent during the delay
    - "Single shot timer of 100 ms expired" is printed only once on every switch press

6. LED indicates the periodic timer functionality
    - LED is toggled periodically every one second

Refer to the following table for switch and LED name:

| Board | Switch name | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- | --------- |
|  [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103) | S1 | LED1 |
|  [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320004) | SW1 | LED1 |
||||

Commit message:

[Time] added doc for PIC32MX starter kit
MH3-45159

apps/system/time/sys_time_multiclient/readme.md, after:

---
parent: Harmony 3 driver and system service application examples for PIC32MX family
title: Time System Service multi-client 
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# Time System Service multi-client

This example application demonstrates the multi-client system timer functionality

## Description

For  [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103) and [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320004) :

- This application demonstrates timer functionality (with two clients to the Time System Service) by periodically printing a message on console every two seconds and blinking an LED every one second

- Delay, counter and single shot timer functionality is demonstrated on a switch press

- On a switch press, the application reads the current value of the 64 bit counter (say, count 1)
- It then starts a delay of 500 milliseconds and waits for the delay to expire
- Once the delay has expired, the application again reads the current value of the 64 bit counter (say, count 2) and calculates the difference between the two counter values

- The difference count indicates the time spent for the delay and is printed on the console as, "Delay time = x ms", where x is the delay value and is equal to 500 milliseconds in the given example

- The application then starts a single shot timer of 100 milliseconds
- When the single shot timer expires, a message is printed on the console that says "Single shot timer of 100 ms expired"
- This message is printed only once on every switch press

For [PIC32MX Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320001) :

- This application demonstrates timer functionality (with two clients to the Time System Service) by blinking two LEDs at two different period, one every one second and another every two seconds.
- This application also demonstrates delay functionality. If a switch is kept pressed, an LED is blinked with the period of 500ms using delay functionality.


## Downloading and building the application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_pic32mx) and then click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is **apps/system/time/sys_time_multiclient/firmware** .

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its IDE.

| Project Name      | Description                                    |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| pic32mx470_curiosity.X | MPLABX project for [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103) |
| pic32mx_eth_sk2.X | MPLABX project for [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320004) |
| pic32mx_sk.X | MPLABX project for [PIC32MX Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320001) |
|||

## Setting up the hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

| Project Name| Board|
|:---------|:---------:|
| pic32mx470_curiosity.X | [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103) |
| pic32mx_eth_sk2.X | [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320004) |
| pic32mx_sk.X | [PIC32MX Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320001) |
|||

### Setting up [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103)

- Connect mini USB cable to the 'Debug USB' connector(J3) on the board to the computer
- Install the [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) board on to the mikroBUS socket J5 of [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103)
- Connect mini USB cable to the [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) board. This will enumerate the USB to UART port

**Note:** Ensure that the series resistors on the mikroBUS headers are of value 0 Ohms

### Setting up [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320004)

- Mount [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320004-2) on the J1 connector of [Starter Kit I/O Expansion Board](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320002)
- Connect **TX pin** of [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) to **U2RX pin of J11** header on [Starter Kit I/O Expansion Board](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320002)
- Connect **RX pin** of [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) to **U2TX pin of J11** header on [Starter Kit I/O Expansion Board](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320002)
- Connect **GND pin** of [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) to **GND pin of J11** header on [Starter Kit I/O Expansion Board](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320002)
- Connect mini USB cable to the [USB UART click](https://www.mikroe.com/usb-uart-click) board. This will enumerate the USB to UART port.
- Connect the Debug USB port on the board to the computer using a micro USB cable
- Connect mini USB cable to the 'Debug USB' connector(J7) on the [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/dm320004-2) to the computer

### Setting up [PIC32MX Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320001)
- Connect mini USB cable to the 'Debug USB' connector(J1) on the board to the computer

## Running the Application

For  [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103) and [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320004) :

1. Open the Terminal application (Ex.:Tera term) on the computer
2. Connect to the EDBG Virtual COM port and configure the serial settings as follows:
    - Baud : 115200
    - Data : 8 Bits
    - Parity : None
    - Stop : 1 Bit
    - Flow Control : None
3. Build and Program the application using its IDE
4. Observe the following message getting printed on the console every two seconds

    ![output_sys_time_multiclient_1](images/output_sys_time_multiclient_1.png)

5. Press the switch and observe the following output on the terminal (highlighted in red box)

    ![output_sys_time_multiclient_2](images/output_sys_time_multiclient_2.png)

    - "Delay time = 500 ms" indicates the amount of time spent during the delay
    - "Single shot timer of 100 ms expired" is printed only once on every switch press

6. LED indicates the periodic timer functionality
    - LED is toggled periodically every one second

Refer to the following table for switch and LED name:

| Board | Switch name | LED Name |
| ----- | -------- | --------- |
|  [Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103) | S1 | LED1 |
|  [PIC32 Ethernet Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320004) | SW1 | LED1 |
||||

For [PIC32MX Starter Kit](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320001) :

1. Build and Program the application using its IDE
2. Observe LED1 blink every 1 sec
3. Observe LED2 blink every 2 sec
4. If switch SW1 is continously pressed then observe LED3 blink every 500ms
